2022 Annual Report
Published Nov 16, 2022

More:

En español
A worker rapelling of a wind turbine
DENNIS SCHROEDER/GPA PHOTO ARCHIVE
UCS works to put science into action to build a healthier planet, a safer world, and a more equitable society. We are scientists, engineers, economists, activists, and everyday people working together to make change happen.

Message from the President & Chair
Even when things looked particularly grim this past year, UCS stayed in the fight.

At the end of June, the Supreme Court restricted the government’s authority to regulate carbon emissions from the power sector. This ruling, which arrived during what UCS has designated Danger Season—the summer months when the deadliest impacts of climate change collide— dealt us and our allies a damaging (but not unexpected) blow. We spoke out through the media about it. We analyzed the impact. We took a moment to vent with each other.

And then we went back to work in the channels where we knew we could make progress: in coalition with our partner organizations, advocating for science-based policies with city and state legislatures, pressuring Big Oil and Big Agriculture to stop blocking urgently needed changes, and engaging with policymakers and regulators in Washington, DC.

We keep fighting because a livable planet is worth fighting for. And we keep fighting because we can win. Regardless of favorable or unfavorable political winds, who’s in or out of office, and what decisions are being handed down, we will find ways to make meaningful progress on the issues we care deeply about. We are unwavering in our commitment to use science that informs the best solutions for today’s problems, and to make sure those solutions work for everyone.

Just over a month after that Supreme Court ruling, Congress approved the largest-ever US investments in addressing climate change—mere days after the measure appeared doomed to defeat. UCS contributed the science that shaped these investments, so this big win restored our hope. And once again, after we spoke out through the media, analyzed the benefits, and took a moment to celebrate, we went right back to work.

Working with regional utilities to add more renewable energy to the power grid. Working with environmental justice organizations to make sure policies intended to reduce emissions don’t place additional burdens on communities of color and low-income communities.

In these pages is a record of success that you made possible, with your own unwavering commitment to UCS and our proven formula of science and advocacy in service of a healthier, safer, and more just world. Thank you for staying in the fight with us and trusting us to find ways to make science-informed progress in any situation.

Signatures
A worker rapelling of a wind turbine
DOWNLOAD
2022 Annual Report (PDF)
The complete 2022 annual report, including campaign highlights and a detailed financial statement.
Revenue
Spatial chart showing revenue for 2022. 90% came from individuals, rest from foundations and other.
The Union of Concerned Scientists continues to benefit from the generosity of our more than 109,000 members and foundations, who work in partnership with us to build a healthy planet and safer world. The majority of our support—90 percent—came from generous individual donors through outright and planned gifts, while support from foundations represented 9 percent of our revenue.

Expenses
Spatial chart showing expenses for 2022. 88% went to programs, 6% admin, 6% fundraising. 
Eighty-eight percent of every dollar donated to UCS in fiscal year 2022 directly funded our program work, with the remaining 12 percent spent on the critical administrative infrastructure and fundraising that support our programs. With an annual budget of more than $50 million, UCS continues to strengthen our unique ability to help solve our planet’s most pressing problems with the power of independent science.

You make it all possible
We are deeply grateful for your dedication and support. This work would not be possible without your commitment to building a better world together. Thank you.