Checking In with Costco Stock Before Earnings
The security is looking to snap a four-day losing streak today
avatar
Laura McCandless
Deputy Editor
Dec 7, 2022 at 2:17 PM
COST
facebooktwitterlinkedin
Millionaire Trader Drops Bombshell… “The Only Trade You Will Ever Need”

Costco Wholesale stock, Costco stock, COST stock
Costco will report fiscal first-quarter results after the close tomorrow, Dec. 8
Costco Wholesale Corp (NASDAQ:COST) is gearing up for its fiscal first-quarter earnings report, due out after the close Thursday, Dec. 8, for which Wall Street anticipates profits of $3.11 per share.

Costco stock has been sliding on the charts ahead of the event, after surging to its highest level since September. However, the security could snap its four-day losing streak if today's small gains hold. At last glance, COST was up 0.6% at $484.09.

Costco stock has a split post-earnings history over the last two years, with four of the last eight next-day sessions finishing positive, and four negative. The options pits are pricing in a post-earnings swing of 6%, regardless of direction, which is higher than the 2.5% move the stock has averaged over the aforementioned reports. 

It's worth noting that COST's 14-day relative strength index (RSI) of 23.5 sits in "oversold" territory, suggesting a short-term bounce could be in the cards. Year-to-date, the equity is still down 14.6%. 

Now looks like a good time to weigh in with options, as COST's Schaeffer's Volatility Scorecard (SVS) of 90 out of 100 indicates the security has exceeded option traders' volatility expectations during the past year.

Millionaire Trader: “Tech Stocks Are Overrated, Do THIS, Instead”


 
Minimize Risk While Maximizing Profits

There is no options strategy like this one, which consistently minimizes risk while maintaining maximum profits. Perfect for traders looking for ways to control risk, reduce losses, and increase the likelihood of success when trading calls and puts. The Schaeffer’s team has over 41 years of options trading success targeting +100% gains on every trade. Rest assured your losses are effectively limited to your initial cost at the time of making your move! Don't waste another second... join us right now before the next trade is released! 